1) Viewing MIS reports - 1) Basis of Values (Ctrl+B) - The reports can be viewed in ScaleFactorlike Crores, Hundreds, Lakhs based on the company requirements.
				 2) Change view (Ctrl+H) - choose different format to view the report.
				 3) Exeption Reports (J) - shows the ledgers with abnormal behaviours. for example a ledger with -ve balance, Optional vouchers, Memorandom vouchers.
2) GST - 1) Intrastate - same state. Interstate - different states.
	   2) E-way bill - 1) Required when value of goods exceeds 50000 except delhi where it's 100000. Intrastate or Interstate, E-way is required in both cases.
				 2) Generally generated by the seller but if seller is unregistered the buyer or transporter or either of them can generate it.
 				 4) Generate Invoice with E-way bill - Goto GOT -> D -> O -> G -> e-way bill -> export e-way bill -> export it in json format which will be save in tally folder.
				                                       Now open E-way bill portal and upload the json file on it. Click Generate E-way bill number. Now back Tally, open that
										   e-way bill and enter the generated e-way bill number into it. Generate Tax-invoice it will have E-way bill number in it
										   (if not then Check configuration). This can also be done during the entry by exporting it immedeately on the portal.
3) TDS - 1) Threshold limit is different for each Nature of payment. When value exceeds threshold limit then TDS is deducted.
	   2) Grouping of TDS deduction Ledgers - We can group ledgers which are using same Nature of payment to deduct TDS. Ex - Ledgers of Rent on Furniture and Rent on Building.
								1) To group rent on furniture and building ledgers, we will create new group named "Rend on Furniture & Building" under Indirect expenses
								   and take Nature of Payment that was used by both the original ledgers. Now redifine both Furniture and building ledger under this group.
4) Order Processing - 1) Purchase order - Purchase order is handled using following steps.
					            i) Enter Purchase order entry - 
						     ii) Enter Receipt note entry - 
						    iii) Enter Rejection out entry - Pass this entry if Purchase invoice is not generated yet.
						     iv) Enter Purchase entry - Generate Sales invoice. If point-iii is used then enter the partial goods that are Left after rejection of goods.
							v) Enter Debit note - Pass Debit note if Goods are rejected after Purchase invoice is generated.
						     vi) Enter Receive entry - Receive Payment from Debtor.
   							   NOTE - Rejection note is passed if Purchase invoice is not generated at the time of Rejection. otherwise Debit note is passed.
			    2) Sales order - This is handled using same sequence given for Purchase order. Just replace vouchers Rejection out, Debit note with Rejection in and credit note.
   **NOTE - When goods are rejected before raising a purchase or sale invoice then the details are recorded in rejection in or rejection out vouchers.
   **NOTE - When goods are rejected after raising a purchase or sale invoice then the details are recorded in debit note or credit note vouchers.
5) Storage Classification - 1) Tally prime comes with predifined Manufacture Journal voucher. Goto stock jouranal voucher and Change it's mode (Ctrl+H) to manufacture mode.
				    2) When we need to move goods from multiple godown to one godown then sake of simplicity we can create a new class in stock journal voucher named "Godown
				       Transfer" by enabling "use for inter-godown transfer" to yes.
				    3) Tally prime comes with predifined Interest calculation mode in credit note voucher. Just Change it's mode (Ctrl+H) to Interest accounting mode.
6) Backup Data - 1) To Backup company GOT -> Alt+Y -> Backup -> Select companies to backup -> also can set directory path to store backup file -> accept screen.
		     2) Backup file will be named like "TBK900_10000.001" where "TBK900_" is prefix.
		     3) Restoring data - To restore companies GOT -> Alt+Y -> Restore -> Select companaies to restore or also can set directory path if the backup file is not in current path.
7) Export & Import - Tally Prime allows us to extract the data in different formats such as ASCII, Excel, HTML, JPEG, PDF, andXML using the export feature.
			  1) GOT -> Export (Alt+E) -> current         // This will export current opened report.
 			  1) GOT -> Export (Alt+E) -> others          // This will take us export other reports without disturbing the current opened report.
8) E-mailing - we can directly e-mail reports like outstanding statements and documents such as invoices, purchase orders, reminder letters to customers and vendors. GOT -> Alt+M.
9) GST Hierarchy - company > stock group > stock item > accounting group > accounting ledger > transaction.         [Left - to - Right]
10) Generating GSTR-3R report - Goto GSTR-3B -> set period for full Financial Year -> F12 -> Show tax type in seperate columns (yes) -> F5 (detailed view). 
11) TDS - 1) Exporting TDS 26Q report/return goto report 26Q -> Atl+B to save -> Alt+E -> e-return -> accept. This will create a SDF/txt file which will be stored in entered directory path.
	    2) The exported file (form 26Q) is required to be validated with the File Validation Utility (a freely downloadable utility from NSDL website) and after validation, the returns 
		 should be submitted to the department in CD along with Form 27A in Physical Form.
	    3) other TDS reports 26Q and 27EQ can be exported using same way.
	    4) Direct Payment to Creditor - Pyament of TDS without passing journal entry. We will directly deduct TDS in payment voucher when making payment to Creditor.
							Open Payment voucher -> single entry mode -> take bank -> take expense ledger -> Take TDS ledger -> enter details (PAN is important) -> will 
							TDS which will be shown -ve value.
12) Budget Management - 1) These have no effect on account books hence this feature is only for Infomational purpose to estimate and project/plot the Expenditure against the budgets.
				2) Budet report called "Budget Variance" is shown under Trial balance. Goto to Trial balance -> Alt+B or F10 (Prime) -> select budget -> OK.
			      3) on closing balance - To monitor and report only the closing balances of account not the transactions. 
			      4) on nett transaction - To monitor and report the Transactions of account not their balances. When it selected Budget variance shows Per day allocated Expenses.								  
13) Scenario Management - In business the sequence of transaction that are not liable to be recorded currently in the system but it will be recorded in future, such transaction are handled
				  using Scenario management vouchers. There are Three type of such vouchers.
				  1) Optional voucher - Actually this is not a seperate voucher type (but we can create one, just enable 'make it optional' while creating new voucher), it's like
								a tag used to mark other regular vouchers. They will have no effect on our books but since they are marked hence we can find them later and
								resolve/unmark them to become regular vouchers. Alt+L is the shortcut for it.
			        2) Memorandum voucher - This is a non-accounting voucher and the entries made using memo voucher will not affect your accounts. In other words, Tally.ERP 9 does
								  not post these entries to ledgers, but stores them in a separate Memorandum Register.  You can alter and convert a Memo Voucher into a
								  regular voucher when you decide to bring the entry into your books.
				  3) Reversing voucher - are special journals that are automatically reversed after a specified date. They exist only till that date and are effective only when 
								 they are included in reports.  These are used in interim reporting in the course of the financial year where accruals are to be reported. 
								 These accruals are usually short term and are cleared in the subsequent period (set by user). However, to get a proper perspective,
								 decision makers require the reports with full impact of all aspects and transactions.
   				  Note - To activate all of them Goto Accounting feature(F11) > activate it.
14) Multi-currency - 1) Tally prime has now predifined mode in journal voucher to pass the entry of adjustment of forex gain & loss. Open journal voucher -> Ctrl+H (change mode).
			   2) To adjust forex gain/loss -> Create class in journal voucher -> create and include new ledger "Forex gain/loss" under indirect incomes in it -> Open journal 
				under created class (Alt+F7) -> single entry mode -> Take all Multi currency transactions -> save. Adjusting completed.	     
15) Tracking Additional cost on Purchase - 1) This feature adds the additional expenses while buying an item to it's original cost to evaluate total cost of the item.
							 2) Activate this from F11 > accountin features or In Prime Alter Purchase voucher and activate "Track additional cost on Purchase".
							 3) This only works when purchase entry is made in Voucher (Cr./Dr.) mode.
							 3) Make sure "Invetory values effected" is set to yes for Purchase ledger from F12 menu.
16) Tracking Item wise Cost - 1) Enable Cost tracking to Yes from F12 menu.
17) POS - Point of Sale is used in any location where sales transaction is taking place.
	    1) Create New voucher type - Name (POS) -> group (sales) -> Activate this voucher (yes) -> Use for POS invoicing (Yes) -> Enter other details -> save. Nos it's ready to use.
18) Multilingual - 1) For prime - Change language - GOT -> F1 -> settings -> language.
		       2) For ERP.9 - GOT > Ctrl+K to change keyboard language. 
BOOK 4

1) Mantain Batches - 1) Expired Batch stock Transfer - In stock Journal configuration screen, set yes to "Allow use of expired batches" to see list of expired batches in the list
			      active batches. Now simply pass Godown transfer transaction in stock journal voucher and transfer the expired batch to Scrap godown.
			   2) Transfer Analysis Report - Transfer analysis report gives you the details of stock transferred from one location to another with quantity, rate and additional
								   cost details, it will also give you the details of Batches/Lots (activate from F12).
								   Gateway of Tally > Display > Inventory books > Movement Analysis > Transfer Analysis > Select Stock Journal > Select the Stock Item.
2) Stock Valuation Methods - https://youtu.be/hNAdOvYJGDU or https://youtu.be/rVPGrlcyw70
				     Stock Valuation is all about Estimating the rate/cost of stock items left in iventory. By default Tally uses Avg. Cost method to evaluate rate/cost of item
				     Goto Stock summary -> Rate under closing balance is current evaluated rate/cost of that stock item.
				     1) Cost of Goods sold = Opening Stock + Purchases - Closing Stock.
				     2) There are 9 types of Stock evaluation methods available in tally prime.
					  1) Avg cost method - Average cost method is set by default in Tally. Avg. cost = (Total purchase Value)/(Total quantity of items).
				        2) Zero cost method - cost of stock item is taken as Zero, inventory will be valued at zero cost irrespective of the purchasing rate and current balance.
								      hence rate and closing balance of item is not shown in Stock summary.
					  3) FIFO - First in First out, in this method Stock purchased First is sold first. hence if purchase was made on different prices then since First stock is
						      sold out hence the remaining stock will be valued on the value on which it was purchased. For Ex - assume 1st purchase was made on 100/pcs and 2nd
							purchase was made on 120/pcs then if on selling 1st stock was sold then remaining stock will be valued at 120/pcs that is their purchase price.
                                   		NOTE - if items from both stocks are present then their Average cost is taken as evaluated rate for closing balance. Ex - suppose 2 nos of 1st
								 Purchas stock is present an 10 nos of Seconds purchased stock then evaluated value will be = (2*100+10*120)/12 = 1400/12 = 116.66
				        4) FIFO Perpetual - works same as FIFO in current FY but at the end of FY it shows the Prices of Stocks/Lots as per their actual costs.
					  5) Last purchase cost - the closing value of the stock item is calculated based on the rate of the last recent purchase.
					  6) LIFO annual - Under the LIFO Annual method, it is assumed that items purchased last are sold ﬁrst under the current ﬁnancial year That means it is
								 to be used in 1 FY. on next FY closing balance is taken as Last purchase for the stocks will be sold out.
					  7) LIFO perpetual - Under the LIFO Perpetual method, it is assumed that items purchased last are sold ﬁrst across the ﬁnancial year. That means it is not 
								    bound with 1 Year limit like the LIFO annual.
					  8) Monthly Avg. cost - In the monthly average costing method, the closing value of each month will be treated as opening for the next month.
 					  9) Std. cost - Standard Cost is User Specified Rate. Once Std. Cost is specified this rate is applicable for the current date irrespective of the price/cost
						           of purchase/input.
                                See eBook for more clarity.
2) Order processing - 1) Pre-order closure - Pre-closing of order is required when there are order cancellations for any reason like lack of stocks, goods returned due to defects, etc.
				 pre-closing orders aﬀect the inventory report. find the sales order entry in day book or order outstandings -> open it -> Ctrl+C (Alt+W in prime) -> enter reason
				 and date to close order. 
				 To partially pre-close the order Goto (GOT > E > L > sales order outstandings > select entry > Ctrl+C (Alt+W in prime) > enter partial amount to close partially.
3) Re-Order Levels - 1) It is a feature in tally that suggest us to place orders for stock items when their stock quantity becomes lower than a set/Predifined Qauntity. Purchase order and
			      sales order voucher needed to activated to set reorder levels in inventory info (search in tally prime). 
				We can set reorder levels using two methods. i) Simple Reorder level ii) Advanced Reorder level.
				i) Simple Reorder level - https://youtu.be/sfRNZ0ptYkk  - this is simple Reorder level which takes two arguments. Whenever Stock item reaches Reorder Quantity, Min
								  order Quantity is purchase order is Suggested in Reorder levels Reports. Goto GOT -> D -> Statement of inventory (E) -> Reorder Status ->
								  select item.
							        1) Reorder Quantity - Reorder is suggested when stock item quantity reaches this value.
								  2) Min Order Quantity - Quantity of stock item to be ordered.
				ii) Advance Reorder level - https://youtu.be/re8h_tcxRNw - It is advanced version of Simple reorder level. In this we get an OR statement like field in which we can
						                feed some more conditions for better order suggestion. In reorder setting screen press Alt+M and Alt+R to open advance field of Reorder
								    quantity and Min order Quantity. The 1st Field Takes Period (Ex-10) and second one takes "higher" or "lower" as arguments (Ex-High).
								    In this exaple - If simple reorder quantity is less than highest quantity of items sold in last 10 days then that highest quantity will
								    be taken as reorder quantity. Same goes for the Min order Quantity if their advance parameter are filled same as this one.
				NOTE - Purchase/Sales orders are treated as Physical stocks (Real purchases) in Reorder level reports/status.
4) Price List - 1) Price list can be assigned to ledger while creating them. The ledgers will automatically be applied with the attached price list during the entry.
		    2) For revising Price list Goto price list selection menu -> Alt+R -> Enter applicable from date and enter revised data to update the price list.
		    3) Can revise Price list using two option.
				      1) Increase/Decrease by Amount (Generally used for to increase/decrease the rate of item). See Test-VI-1.
					2) Increase/Decrease by Percentage (Generally used for to increase/decrease the discount on item because discounts are generally defined in percentages)
		    4) We can deactivate Price list of speciefic item if have Price list defined with multiple items in it.
5) Manufacturing Process - 1) Stock transfer & Journal Register - Displays the Stock journal voucher entered. GOT -> D -> Inventory books (I) -> Stock Transfers and journal register.
				   2) Transfer Analysis - Gives movement detals for each entry of stock journal transfers (Godown Transfers). 
				   3) Cost Estimation - Is a statement that gives the value of costs incurred during the manufacture of finished goods. GOT -> D -> Inventory books (I) -> cost 
								estimation -> select finished goods -> F5 to display BOM.
				   4) Stock Ageing Analysis - Gives detail of period by which item is present in Godown. GOT -> D -> Inventory books (I) -> Ageing analysis -> select item.
6) GST - 1) Purchase/Sale inclusive of Tax - Tax adjusted in Rate of items. Turn on Open purchase/sale voucher -> from F12 configuration -> under Tax details field. Now a new field 
			  				   appear. enter Tax inclusive rate in one field, the normal rate and total normal value will be calculated and shown in another fields. 
							   Now apply the GST ledgers normally and complete the entry.
	   2) Normal GST liability Adjustement against ITC - If input GST is greater that output GST then use this method to Make adjustment otherwise it will not reflect in GST reports.
							   Open journal voucher -> Alt+J -> GST -> Decrease of Tax liability -> Adjstment agains Credit -> Debit GST ledger with ITC amount and
							   Credit that same GST ledger with ITC amount.  [May be This is used when GST ledgers are not created as Input and output GST].
	   3) Timeline for GST Payment - 1) Regular - 20th of the subsequent month.
						   1) Composition - 18th of the subsequent quarter.					
	   4) Purchase from Composite Dealer - 1) Dealers whose aggregate turnover didn’t exceed `75 Lakh in the previous year come under the composite scheme. However, there are some
							      exceptional scenarios where despite the `75 Lakh annual turnover, the taxable person can’t be eligible to be a composite dealer, such as when
							      the taxable person is - 
											      1) is a supplier of services (with an exception to food and beverages for human consumption). 
											      2) supplies goods through an e-commerce operator.
							   2) Make Party ledger with Registration Type as Composition -> enter GSTIN.
							   3) On selecting party as Composition type then tally will not calculate Tax on it hence don't apply GST ledgers on it and pass it normally.
							   4) This entry can be seen under "Nil rated entries" field in GSTR-2 reports.
         5) Exports - 1) When goods are supplied outside the county it is called as Exports. Exports can be of diﬀerent natures. Here is a list of exports.
				 To make their entries, just take Nature of Payment according to them or also can create new sales ledger for each of them (shown here).
				 1) Taxable Export - Attracts Integrated Tax. To record this type of entry Create a new Ledger "Sales Export" under sales group and set Nature of Transaction as
							   "Export Taxable". Now make the sale entry but apply IGST ledger on it. see GSTR-1 -> Export invoices.
				 2) Exempt Export - No tax (exempt). To record this type of entry Create a new Ledger "Exempt Exports" under sales group and set Nature of Transaction as
							  "Export exempt". Now make the sale entry but apply IGST ledger on it. see GSTR-1 -> Export invoices.
				 3) Exempt Under LUT/bond - This export is applicable when accompanied by a letter of undertaking from the department of export of goods without payment of TAX.
	  	        					    Entry for LUT/bond Export - Create Party ledger with Foreign country and also make a new Ledger "Sales Export" under sales group and 
								    set Nature of Transaction as Export LUT/bond -> Taxability (exempt-autoset). Now make the sale entry but don't apply GST ledger on it.
								    See GSTR-1 > exempt invoices.
				 4) Deemed Export - Deemed exports refers to those transactions in which the supplied goods don’t leave the country and the payment is received in the country.
			    
	   6) SEZ sales - Special Economic Zone - Some companies are registered under SEZ Zone and most of them will get special exemption under Income Tax & other taxes. It can also have
				3 types. 1) Taxable (IGST) 2) Exempt 3) SEZ under LUT/bond (no-tax). while making their entries just take appropriate Nature of Transaction.				
				Ex - To record SEZ taxable entry entry Create a new Ledger "SEZ sales" under sales group and set Nature of Transaction as "sale To SEZ taxable". Now make the sale 
				     entry and apply IGST ledger on it. GSTR-1 -> Export invoices.
	   7) RCM - Reverse charge is also applicable in case of supply by an unregistered person to a registered person if supplies in a day exceeds 5000 then GST on such supply needs to
			be paid by the recipient under reverse charge.
7) TDS - 1) TAN - is the Tax Deduction & Collection Account Number, it is a 10 digit alphanumeric character issued by the Income Tax Department. The Format of TAN is "AAAA 12345 A" Where
			A (last character) represents the ﬁrst character of the name of the Organisation.
         2) PAN - Permanent Account Number, it is a 10 Digit alphanumeric character allotted by the Income Tax Department toall the tax payers whose income is taxable.
	   NOTE - PAN format is "AAAAA 1234 A" has 5 alphabets 4 digits but TAN has 4 Alphabets and 5 digits.
         3) TDS on partial amounts - Some time a part of payment is charged under TDS where rest are not. Ex - received a bill from Adview Advertising Agency for 112360, out of which
		 				 100000 is towards the advertising services provided. So only 100000 will be considered for the computation of TDS and remaining 12360 is other expenses
						 on which TDS should not be deducted.
						 To Record such entries Open Journal voucher -> F12 -> Allow modification of tax details (Yes) -> Now while entering amount enter full amount -> a new
						 window will open asking for assesable value, Enter the Taxable value on which TDS is to be deducted (100000) -> Rest of process is same.
	   4) Booking Expenses and Deducting TDS in seperate vouchers - Sometime company not needs to deduct TDS at the time of receiving transaction bill, later it will be deducted. In this
					    case we simply pass a journal entry of booking Expense (Dr. Expense ledger, Cr. party ledger) and keep a NewRef bill of it (Maintain bill by bill -> Yes).
					    Later we will use this bill ref to deduct TDS when needed.
					    To record this type of Transaction Set "Deduct in same voucher -> No" while creating party ledger. so that we can use different vouchers to Book charges
					    and deduct TDS. After booking Charges Goto Journal voucher and use autofill (Ctrl+P or Ctrl+F in Prime) -> TDS -> date, party, bill ref to deduct TDS.
					    Use purchase ledger if purchasing more than one services togather to deduct TDS on all of them in one journal entry.

    NOTE - In ERP.9, in journal voucher - 1) Stat Adjustment (Alt+J) 2) TDS deduction (Ctrl+P).


	   5) Deducting TDS on advance payment - See video.
	   6) Deduction of TDS on Lower/Zero - Same concept used with TCS. While creating Party ledger Set Yes in "use advance TDS entry" -> set/alter zero/lower rate (yes) -> Choose Nature
							   of Payment, Section (197A for zero), period and Lower/Zero Rate to set Deduction. Lower/Zero rates will be applied to this ledger only.
							   During entry in journal voucher don't apply TDS ledger if Zero rate is set as lower rate.
	   7) Revarsal of TDS - In case of cancellation of transactions, the expenses and TDS deducted needs to be reversed. possible only when the cancellation of transaction is made 
 					before the payment of TDS to the government. After making TDS purchase entry to reverse it goto Debit note voucher -> convert it to Accounting (Alt+I) and
				      Single entry (Ctrl+V - most important to Reverse TDS) mode -> Take party ledger -> Take Expense ledger (full amount) -> TDS ledger (automatically deducts 
					shows in -ve -> follow bill wise process -> save. Check TDS reports, TDS entry will vanish.
	   8) TDS on item purchase with GST - All the process will be same just Activate TDS in purchase voucher and select the applicable Nature of payment on it. Now apply TDS ledger the 
							  same way on purchase voucher as we apply GST ledger in item invoice mode to calculate tax. see (-ve) balance of TDS ledger on success.
	   9) TDS on fixed assets - While creating ledger of fixed asset activate TDS on it ->  Treat as TDS expenses (yes) -> select applicable Nature of Payment.

	  10) TDS challan (ITNS 281) - Printing TDS Payment voucher is called TDS challan or ITNS. Open payment voucher and use Alt+P or Ctrl+P in tally prime.
	  11) TDS filing Periods - Form 26Q is quarterly return but Government and non-Government entities have slight difference in last date of depositing TDS shown below.
					   1) non-Government entities - 15 Jul, 15 Oct, 15 Jan, 15 May.
					   1) Government entities - 31 Jul, 31 Oct, 31 Jan, 15 May.
	  12) Challan Renciliation - The TDS Payment Entries are said TDS challan and they are needed to be reconciled to view their effect on TDS payable balance.Here Press F5 to reconcile.
	  13) TDS Reports - 1) Form 24Q - Quarterly statement for tax deducted at source (TDS) from “Salaries”.
				  2) Form 16 -  TDS certificate and is issued Annually in case of TDS deducted on income from salary.  
				  3) Form 26Q - it is a quarterly return for deduction of tax in respect of payments (other than salary) made to residents.	
				  4) Form 16A - It is issued Quarterly in case of TDS deducted on income other than salary.
				  5) Form 27Q - it is a quarterly return for deduction of tax in respect of payments (other than salary) made to Non-Residents.
				  6) Form 27EQ - Quarterly statement of TCS.
8) Security Controls - 1) It has two levels of security by default. 1) Owner 2) Data entry. Others are need to be created.    [answer (3) given in book is Wrong]
			     2) Owner - has all rights or full access of all features of company in tally except Tally Audit and Company Alteration which is reserved for Company Administrator.
			     3) Administrator - administrator can decide and set a strong password policy to ensure strong data security.
			     4) Data Entry - Data Entry has restricted access but the administrator can assign or restrict the access based on the requirement.
			     5) Password Policy - (rules for password) - has ability to Expire password, Reuse Password, Change Password and Even override the whole password policy.
			     6) Tally Vault - 1) Tally Vault is an Encryption system powered with algorithm of irreversible nature. If Password of Tally vault is Not available then no-one can 
						       access the data becuase Encrypted data is not saved in Local Tally system. It is most secure form of security in Tally. We need to set Password
						       in Tally Vault to set Encrypted password for the company. Goto company info or GOT > Alt+K > tally vault (for Prime). In ERP Goto comp. info.
						    2) Companies Secured with Tally vault are not shown in company list, they are shown as String of Astriks (*) but they can be identified by their 
						       unique 5 digit number.
						    3) When we set Tally vault password on Existing company then a replica/copy of that company is created that remains encrypted with Tally vault.
						       The original company remains unaeffected which we can delete now and use Newly Created company as old company.
9) Backup & Restore - 1) Export & Import - XML file format is used to Export/Import data between companies. Other formats can be used to share data between other programs.
			    2) Exporting Masters/ledgers - Goto Display -> List of Ledgers or GOT -> Charts of accounts -> Ledgers (in Prime). In list of Ledgers Press Alt+E to export. see 
								     Configurations and set format to XML. we can also set Ledger's closing balance as their opening balance from config options.
								     We can also Export Entries using same way. Provides 3 ways to merge existing masters with imported masters.
			    3) Importing Masters/ledgers - Similary goto import and select import file to import it. We have three options while importing.
								     1) Combine Opening Balances - Consolidate/combine opening balances of existing and imported masters togather.
								     2) Ingnore Duplicates - Ignore importing of Duplicates (already existing) masters. 
								     3) Modify with new Data - Override/Rewrite the existing masters opening balances with the imported master's balances.
   NOTE - Make sure both companies between which data is imported or exported are of same FY.
10) E-mailing - Using e-mail facility we can directly e-mail reports like outstanding statements and documents such as invoices, purchase orders, reminder letters to customers and vendors.
		    Open any report or entry -> Alt+M -> select/configure mail server -> set recepients (can set multiple receipients) -> select file format -> send.
		    Mailing body is sent as HTML data.
		    1) Mass Mailing - Mass mailing feature allows the user to e-mail reports to multiple E-Mail Ids at one shot i.e., the user can send e-mails to more than one e-mail id from
			 		    a single screen, while retaining the existing e-mail conﬁgurations. Mails will be sent to the E-mail mentioned in the ledgers.
11) Printing - 1) config options - 1) Print Format - There are three options in it.
							     	     i) Dot Matrix mode - allows you to print Tally.ERP 9 reports in text format using the dot matrix printers.
					 		     	    ii) Neat mode - Set as default in Tally. Uses better fonts to print.
					 		         iii) Quick/draft - 
		   		           2) Auto repeat Column - Using Auto column we can print additional columns in printed reports or any specific piece of data in columns. Ex - We can print
									     balance sheet for each half year period and then compare it to get information about company's performance.
		   2) Printing Confirmation of Accounts - is used to send conﬁrmation of account balance to customers, suppliers, lenders and borrowers. Goto GOT -> D > Accounts Books > Ledger
									that has entries -> Alt+P or Ctrl+P (in Prime) -> config -> Style of report or report/type (Confirmation of a/c).	
		   3) Printing Logo - Make sure the logo format is either Bitmap (.bmp) or JPEG. The recommended logo size is 96 pixels width * 80 pixels in height. Enable Logo printing from
					    F11 > F1 (company features) > logo printing (yes) > enter location of Logo > OK. In Prime, from anywhere Press Alt+P -> configuration.
					    Now while printing any report we will get option to print logo on it. If print logo options is not shown then set Yes on "print reminder letter".
12) Year end Process - 1) At year end Company is splitted into two. Before splitting following Precaution is ensured.
			     	     1) adjusted Forex Gains/Losses. 
			     	     2) Outstanding balance are not carried forward hence ensure There are no Purchase/Sales Bills due or outstanding.
			     	     3) Data in cost centers are also not carried forward hence they need to be resolved.
			     	     4) Ensure to take Data Backup before processing.
			     2) Splitting company - GOT -> Alt+F2 or Alt+Y (on prime) -> It has two option. 1) Verify data 2) Split data.
							    1) Verify data - It is a step to check any possible that errors that can occur during splitting. Resolve any errors if found.
							    2) Split data - After verifying data use this to split data -> Split from (FY start date) -> accept. This will create copy of company but 
										  period with Next FY. 
13) Release Annexure - 1) Units - If the Units are not mapped with Unit Quantity code (UQC) while creating the It then the transactions recorded using these units of measure will not be
					    reflected in GST returns. It will be shown under "vouchers with incomplete/mismatch information" waiting to be resolved.
					    stock item has more than one unit of measure, we need to choose a relevant to export in GST return. 
			     2) As per GST rule invoice numbering should be within 16 digit. If it is more than 16-digit then the transaction will not be relevant for the return. In Tally.ERP
				  9, we can predeﬁne the 16-digit in the sales voucher type and also we will get a warning message if the invoice number exceeds 16-digit. Create new voucher and
				  set Voucher numbering as Mannual -> Advance details. Now if we try to enter more than 16 digits in invoice number, we'll get warning.

BOOK 5

1) Single Column cash book has Only one column as amount in both sides (Dr. and Cr. sides)
2) Double column cash book has two cols, one for cash and other for bank in both sides.
3) Triple Column cash book has one more col for discount allowed (in Dr. side) and discount received (in Cr. side). 
4) Bad debts recovered, cash purchase, cash sales and increase in provision for doubtful debts are not included in control accounts and do not aﬀect debtors and creditors account.
5) Sales ledger control account’is also known as ‘debtors control account’and ‘purchases ledger control account’is called as ‘creditors control account.
6) Threre are two Financial statement - 1) Balance sheet  2) Trading a/c and P/L account.
7) Exepenses and duty on import of raw materials is taken as Direct expenses where Transportation charges of Finished goods is taken as indirect expenses.

1) Has 28 predefined groups in tally, 15 groups are primary groups and 13 groups are Sub-groups.
2) Has 24 Prededined Voucher types in tally (source - google.com)
3) Has 2 predefined ledgers. cash and P/L account.

1) SKU means Stock Keeping Unit.
2) Dead Stock - It is a stock which is not sold and lying in godown from long time.
3) FIFO - when the cost of the items are decreasing (deﬂation) then this will result in lower taxable income.
4) LIFO - when the cost of the items are Increasing (Inﬂation) then this will result in lower taxable income.
5) HIFO - Highes in Frist Out - when the cost of the items are decreasing (deﬂation) and this will result in lower taxable income.
6) Safety stock also termed as Buffer stock.

1) 1 Dozen = 12 Pcs     [Dozen is compound unit and Pcs is simple one]

1) Provisions - Provision refers to the amount that is kept aside from proﬁts for future known liabilities. Provisions are shown on the liabilities side of a Balance Sheet.
2) If goods is delivered/received but invoice is not generated then Delivery/Receipt note is generated. Here invoice means Purchase/Sale Entry, Invoice generated means Purchase/Sale entry is passed
   Then in this case we don't need to pass Delivery or Receipt notes.
3) Liability is created when Purchase or Sales entry is passed not when goods are received or delivered.
4) Provision entry is recorded at the end of FY.
5) Short cut of Optional vouchers (Ctrl+L).

1) Payment performace of debtors AKA "Receivable turnover in days" is found in Ratio analysis.
2) Can change period of company from GOT -> Alt+F2. Now we can post entry form next FY.
3) Bad Debt details can be found in Ageing Analysis Report.

1) From ledger vouchers screen Press F5 to Reconcile.
2) CTS - Cheque Trancation System.
3) Multi chque printing supported.
4) Cheque can be cancelled or made blank from cheque register using Alt+A key.
5) Issue blank cheque by passing zero valued payment entry (activate zero valued transaction).
6) Auto Reconcile feature gives ability to import bank statements (in excel, csv or MT940 format) and then auto reconcile it with the entries present in tally.
7) Can also make new entries from Reconciliation screen using Alt+C if any entrie is present in Bank statement but not in tally system. 
8) Can also print Cash deposit slip, Cheque deposit slip and Payment advice.
9) PDC - Post Dated Cheque - Press Ctrl+T to make Payment or Receipt through Post Dated Cheque.
10) National Bank - It to be activated to access features of Post dated cheques. GOT -> F11 -> F1 or Open any Bank ledger in tally prime set National bank.
11) many party ledgers in which bank details are not conﬁgured, it may be very diﬃcult and time consuming to enter the bank details manually in each and every party ledger. To address this problem
    you can make use of Import Bank Details (excel file) feature in Tally.ERP 9.
12) Tally can handle multiple cheque books with different cheque ranges.
13) IFSC has 11 Chars in format - AAAA 0 123456

1) Cost Center Allocation doesn't affect books of accounts.

1) MIS Reports - Management Information System.
2) Assets - liabilties = Capital
3) Liabilities + Owner's equity = Assets               [Owner's equity = capital]
4) Cash flow statement is a statement of amounts in cash and cash equivalents entering and leaving a company. If it is in -ve value this means there is outflow of cash more than inflow.
5) Funds flow statement is a report, which explains the movement of funds during an accounting period.
6) Stock Transfer analysis - Reports shows movement of stock (Godown transfers throught stock journal vouchers only).
7) Movement analysis - Report shows movement of stocks that are integrated with accounting vouchers.
8) Ratio analysis shows the Payment performance of the debtors.				