Payroll Reports - 
1) Provident Funds Report - 
	Gateway of Tally > Display > Payroll Reports > Statutory Reports > Provident Fund
	It is sub-devided into Monthly and Annual based report.
	Monthly - 
		   1) Form 5 - Shows monthly report of newly joined employees for the current month.
		   2) Form 10 - Shows monthly report of employees leaving PF scheme in current month.
			Note - As Form 10 shows employees leaving PF hence must mention Date of Retirement on employee setup page to see that employee on that month in this report.
		   3) Form 12A - Report provides details for PF payments made the respective PF accounts in current month.
 		   4) Monthly Statement - MIS report which provides the details of the amounts contributed by the employees and employer towards the PF accounts. 
		   5) E-Challan Return (ECR) - Electronic Challan cum Return (ECR) is an electronic return in plain text format. All employers of covered 
			establishments under EPF can now file Electronic Challan cum Return (ECR) from April 2012 and get rid of filing physical returns.

	Annual - 
		   1) Form 3A - An employee wise annual report which shows details of only one employee at a time. It shows the amounts deducted/contributed by the employee and the employer.
		   2) Form 6A - Is Detailed Annual Statement/report of contribution towards different PF accounts for the given currency period (financial year).
		   3) E-Return - There are four E-return namely. These are Digital versions on Returns:
				     1) Form 5 (Monthly) - E-return for the Form 5 discussed above.
				     2) Form 10 (Monthly) - E-return for the Form 10 discussed above.
				     3) Form 12A (Monthly) - E-return for the Form 12A discussed above.
				     4) Form 3A (Annual) - E-return for the Form 3A discussed above.

2) ESI Report - 
	Gateway of Tally > Display > Payroll Reports > Statutory Reports > Employee State Insurance.
	It is also sub-devided into Monthly and Annual based report.
	Monthly - 
		    1) ESI Form 3 - is a Return of Declarationform to be submitted during each month with the details of the employees falling in the purview of ESI during the given month.
		    2) Monthly Statement - is an MIS report which provides the details of the amounts contributed by employees’and employer towards the ESI account during the given month.
		    3) E-Return - is a return of declaration form to be submitted during each month with the details of the employees falling in the purview of ESI during the given month.
	Annual - 
		    1) Form 5 - is a return of contribution form to be submitted half yearly with details of employee wise ESI contribution made on a monthly basis.
		    2) Form 6 - is register of employees falling under the purview of ESI with detailed monthly information on the worked days, wages received and employees’ contribution
				    towards the ESI.

3) Professional Tax Reports - 
	Gateway of Tally > Display > Payroll Reports > Statutory Reports > Professional Tax
	It is sub divided into two types 
	Monthly - 
	  	   1) Computation Report - monthly report which provides the details of the PT amount that the employer is liable to pay to the professional tax department during the given
						   month. 
		   2) Statement - MIS report showing the professional tax of all employees and contribution details for the given month.

4) NPS Report - 
	Gateway of Tally > Display > Payroll Reports > Statutory Reports > National Pension Scheme
	It is sub divided into three types
	1) Subscriber Contribution Details - Shows both Employees and Employer's contribution in NPS uder Tier-I and Tier-II accounts.
	   Note -> PRAN - Permanent Retirement Account Number (PRAN) is a unique 12 digit nember allotted to every subscriber contributing to the national pension scheme.
	2) NPS Summary - This report provides a complete breakup of the total contribution made to Tier- I and Tier-II accounts along with the calculation percentage. 
	3) PRAN not available - This report displays the list of employees for whom PRAN is not provided in the employee master.

5) Income Tax Reports - Following Income Tax Reports are Provided in Tally Prime. GOT -> Payroll reports -> Statuory reports -> income tax -> 
			      1) Computation Report - displays the employee-wise income tax computation details in the Form 16 format. Along with the total tax payable, it also displays
								the balance tax payable, tax already paid and tax amount to be deducted in the subsequent month.
				2) Salary Projection - provides the details of the Earnings and Deduction pay head values which are considered for income tax for selected employees. It
							     provides the projection for twelve months and displays the actuals if payroll is already processed for any given month. 
				3) Challan Reconciliation - This screen is used to reconcile the Income tax payment challan details with the bank. Press Alt+R to Start reconciliation.
				4) Returns - This is used Generates following Income Tax Returns.
						 i) Monthly - 
								 1) Form 24Q - is a quarterly statement which contains the details of the salary paid and tax deducted from the employees that an
										   employer needs to submit to the department in each quarter.
							       2) Annexure I to 24Q - Along with the Form 24Q, Annexure I and Annexure II is also required to be submitted. Annexure I is required
												to be ﬁled with Form 24Q in all four quarters while Annexure II has to be ﬁled only in the last Quarter.
								 3) Annexure II to 24Q - As said above Annexure II has to be ﬁled only in the last Quarter with Form 24Q.
						ii) Annual - 
								 1) Form 16 - is the certiﬁcate issued for tax deducted at source from income chargeable under the head salaries.
								 2) Form 12BA - Form 12BA is the statement displaying the particulars of perquisites, other beneﬁts or amenities and proﬁts in lieu of
										    salary with value.
								 3) ITR-1 - (Indian Income Tax Return) is used to file income tax return. Similar to Form 16, ITR-1 is can also be printed separately for
										each employee. ITR-1 is used for individuals having income from salary.
				5) E-Return - Following income tax E-returns are generated in tally prime - 
						  i) E-24Q - E-24Q is a Quarterly e-return which contains the details of the salary paid and tax deducted from the employees that an employer needs to
						             submit to the department in each quarter.
						 ii) Form 27A -  is a summary of TDS return which contains control totals of amount paid and income tax deducted at source. Form 27A is to be ﬁled in
								     physical form with each return i.e., Form 24Q.
				6) Exception Reports - 
 

	